So now we have covered setting up a local build environment,
let's take a look at building one in the cloud.
First,
we need to make sure you have the right prerequisites required
to build a Go executable with AWS CodeBuild.
There is only one thing we need to have ready and set up for this module,
and we have already set it up.
Awesome.
Let's have a look what the next steps are.
So we already have everything set up and in place.
Let's take a look at how to plan a build for AWS CodeBuild.
There are five main components to remember when
planning a build with AWS CodeBuild.
They include the buildspec file, the Docker image,
the compute type, the shell commands, and the environment variables.
In this demo,
we're going to cover the following components in a little bit more detail.
We're going to take a look at the buildspec file,
the Docker image, the compute type, the commands,
and the environment variables.
So I'm going to talk about our buildspec.yml file.
The first thing you'll notice is the version at the top.
0.2 is the latest.
There's also 0.1 available, but it uses a difference syntax.
And then I'm going to set an environment variable here called VERSION_ID.
Now, I've used this a little bit later on in the post_build command down here,
and that's how you reference the variable.
And let's jump back up to the top,
and then the next thing you'll notice is we have a phases key.
Now, phases has other keys inside them.
We have install, pre_build, and post_build the install phase.
You can select a runtime version to use, so I've used golang 1.14.
So in our ubuntu.standard 4.0, container that we used locally before,
you can actually reference golang in there,
and it will then say install golang for us to use during the build process.
The next phase is the pre_build phase.
In this phase,
you can install any dependencies or any packages that you need for the build.
And then the next one is the build, and in here,
we're just going to perform the go build like we did locally,
and then we're also going to echo out whether the CODEBUILD_BUILD is succeeding.
Now, this environment variable here, as you'll notice,
isn't at the top, and this is actually provided by CodeBuild for us to use.
I'm going to show you a few more of these later on.
So after the build is finished,
we want to have some actions after there, and I've used that
CODEBUILD_BUILD_SUCCEEDING environment variable.
So if it's a success, we can then echo out Successfully built VERSION_ID.
You could also hit up Slack's APIs for ChatOps. And then the
final one you'll see is the artifact that were created, and
that's the simplegoapp executable.
So let's jump over to some AWS documentation,
which shows all of the buildspec syntax as possible. And I've put the links
to these at the top of the buildspec.yml file for you to have a look at.
Everything that's possible and can be created is in here, and also, all of
the definitions for each one too. It's really handy, and you'll probably find
this is the first point of call for when you're planning your builds. The
next thing I want to show you is some of the standard containers that are
available to use with a CodeBuild build. So as you've seen before, we used
this one, which was the standard 4.0, and there's also SumUp as a variable,
such as Amazon Linux 2, and I think you can
probably still use the Amazon Linux 1,
but I'm not sure if it's documented on here anymore, and
also Windows 1. Then the next thing I'm going to show you
is the build specifications.
So remember how we used golang 14?
Here's all of the other options that you can have installed. You can have Node,
Java, there's PHP in here, Python. There's loads of them.
So CodeBuild really has your back and makes things easy for you, and
then the next thing I want to show you is the different compute
types that you can use with your build.
So this is the compute resource that you'll select
for your CodeBuild build to use.
Typically, you could probably get away of using a small one,
but if you have something that takes a long time,
you might want to use a bigger compute resource. And then finally,
I'm going to show you the environment variables that are available
for us automatically by default by CodeBuild,
and you'll also see if the, see the
CODEBUILD_BUILD_SUCCEEDING variable here that I've used.
So all of these are available to you to use.
And you might find different reasons to use them in your builds.
So let's just jump back over to the buildspec.yml file, and you'll see at
the top, I've documented all of the links that we've just gone through for you to have a look at at a later date.